+++
title = "Our Next Generation Key-Value Store"
venue = "Docker"

[meetupevent]
  group = "Infinit-Paris"
  id = "239323584"
+++

Key value store is a undamental construct for distributed systems

configuration data
logs
metadata in general

etcd
zk
consul


# Why the hell another kv store ?

For every application its requirement!s

ex:
app that needs to scale to hundreds of nodes
something that needs to be a bit faster
more commonly, an app that is going to be intensive in term of data, for
example a storage platform (infinit), a lot of data is going to flow between
the nodes of the kv store

## Model

The manager/worker distribution worker
not saying it's a bad model, but not good enough for some applications

Managers quorum + workers
manager become critical to the datapath
=> you may have a big problem

you want distributed systems to store
you want many more workers and it scales out
introducing more critical nodes called managers that are going to orchestrate
handle specific requests (permission, done by managers), etc
Managers have more power, and overview of the system

## Limitations

Suited to some but not to all...

- Scalability. Managers cannot scale as easily as your workers. Administrator
  needs to perform manual tasks, and sometimes you need to interrupt the system
  for manager operations
- Resilience. Datapath going through the managers; problem when one manager is
  going to be overflown, and going down, so clients are going to redirect their
  requests to other managers, which are going to go down too, etc. Manager are
  critical, and may not have enough capacity (bandwidth) to process every
  request from clients because they have a lot to do
- Security
- Performance


# Introducing Ininit's kv store

## Presentation

Decenrtalization is the thing!

All nodes equally priviledged

## Scalability

Decentralized architecture naturally scale

in manager/worker, the manager handles metadata where workers just host the
data
in decentralized arch, both nodes play the same role, a bit of manager and a
bit of worker
they all participate ! in managing consistency, hosting data, replica, etc

2 algorithms:
- Overlay Network (NOT related to Docker overlay)
- Distributed Hash table

## Resilience and performance

The more nodes in the system, the faster!
Instead of having specific requests going to the manaager, you have the whole
collection of nodes that can process your data
=> natural distribution across your nodes


you could even say, the more nodes in the system, the faster the system will
get

resilience also improved because it's far more harder to overflow a node

## Security

no central concentration of power or knowledge

No central authority

2 ways to attack such a system:
Network protocol
Large portion of network

## Consistency

Consensus reached among managers in manager/worker system, by always runing
stuff on manager who agree

[raft explanation]. quorum etc

should ALWAYS maintain consistency
this is expensive

one more thing to do on managers when update needed

2/4 consistency

As many quorums as there are values
Decentralized (peer to peer)
As many quorum as we have values in the system
Sounds scary, but it's not

Do you know any kv store that implements such a system? No

3 disjoined requests => handled by 3 different group of nodes, so no
overwelming

Another benefit on top of performance : security. If a node is compromised, it
will have an impact on consensus only on the values it's involved in

3/4 consistency

imagine... 1 million nodes

algorithm picking, overlay network,

Like Ceph? Yes!

Loss of quorum? Loss of values :(

Compromission, debug of compromited values? Trust the quorum


3/4

Imagine.... 1 million nodes

1 million workers ? let's say 1 hundred managers
But the algorithm makes it so every managers has to communicate
problem like gossip protocol scaling


Size of quorum not linked with the system

what if I corrupt the quorums themselves ? need something like a DNS attack,
known attack


worst case scenario, once you find the quorum every node changes


System is simpler to deploy
1 nodes is enough, autodebalance, etc
1 node with replica factor of 3, is going to know it's unealthy


how do you get a consolidated status?
yeah, issue; you have to ask *every* node. Distributed stuff.


4/4 Raft?

lot of ping messages
fine with 3 instances, like Docker Swarm
but scaaaaalin


We decided on Paxos


strongly consistent
everything customizable

## Conclusion

decentralization coupled with per-block quorums!


# API

## Intro

2 layers for the price of one

first thing to understand: actually have 2 things: the kv store, which is build
on top a value store

going to talk about the value store

## Overview

2 major diff:
- Key. System will generate what we call an adress for you because it needs it
  to generate location, etc. We don't let user generate a key. If you want to
  use a key, use the top kv store. Know what you're doing? use the value store
  and adresses
- Value. In the context of infinit value store, different types of values
  referenced as values. Each type has its tradeoff

2 blocks types:
- Mutable. Blocks that can evolve other time. but very costly, because 2
  clients needs to update the same value as the same tiime => consensus
  algorithm => costly. But mutable, so clients can't keep it in cache
  indefinitely, and fetching new values takes time. With traditional kv store
  you implicitely pay the price of mutable blocks
- Immutable. Cannot change over time. Sounds like a strong constraint, but it's
  nice. No conflicts, no consensus algorithm, cheap and faster, and those
  blocks can be kept in cache forever. Annd because the content is adressable,
  they can be fetched from anywhere, not only from the 3 nodes in the quorm but
  from any node because any node can fetch it and verify its integrity

Mostly immutable blocks

## API

2 famlies of functions for the VALUE STORE

Block generation
- MakeImmutableBlock() -> (Adress, Block content)
- MakeMutableBlock() -> (Adress, Block content)

kv store manipulation
- Insert (Block)
- ...




fit a tree inside the block?
search tree to find the block adress
first look for the adress of the key, then the value

key and its corresponding value are not stored in the same quorum



Replication of 9
... probability

rolling a dice everytime 5 nodes die that they're not part of the same quorum



immutable blocks everywhere
tree of immutable block
everything you change anything in a system, everything until the root change.
Like git!
not practical anytime. Introducing immutable blocks. Example: directories are
mutable, but files content are immutable (and splitted in blocks)

versioniiing



# Demo

"Oooh putain de bordel de merde" :')

"I'm tytping with 2 fingers because it's in qwerty and i'm used to dvorak"


mefyl/infinit


# Open source

infinit is # Open source

infinit is # Open source

infinit is intended to become a (more or less) full featured storage platform
- Decentralised
- Policy based

infinit.sh


Block
Object
File







Questions

metric on when other kv stores started to suffer?
